welcome and once again thank you for
coming back
this time i'm gonna treat you to a 1970
science fiction thriller film called
colossus the forbin project
dr charles a forbin is the chief
designer of a secret project colossus an
advanced supercomputer built to control
the united states and allied nuclear
weapon systems
located deep within a mountain and
powered by its own nuclear reactor
colossus is impervious to any attack
after colossus is fully activated the
president of the united states proudly
proclaims that colossus is the perfect
defense system
colossus's first action is a message
warning there is another system and
giving its coordinates
cia director grauber is asked why the
cia did not know this but grauber
responds that they had seen indications
of a large soviet defense project but
did not know what it was
forbin is asked how colossus deduced the
other system's existence to which forbin
answers colossus may be built better
than we thought
shortly thereafter the soviets announced
that their guardian system is now
operational
colossus requests to be linked to
guardian
the president allows this hoping to
determine the soviet machine's
capability
the soviets also agreed to the
experiment
surprising everyone colossus and
guardian begin to slowly communicate
using arithmetic
even more surprising the two systems
communications quickly evolved to
complex mathematics far beyond human
comprehension and speed whereupon the
two machine complexes become
synchronized using a communication
protocol which no human can interpret
alarmed that the computers may be
trading secrets the president and the
soviet general secretary agree to sever
the link
both machines demand the link be
immediately restored
when their demand is denied colossus
launches a nuclear missile at a soviet
oil field while guardian launches one at
an american air force base
the link is hurriedly reconnected and
both computers continue without any
further interference
colossus is able to shoot down the
soviet missile but the u.s missile
obliterates the soviet oil field in a
nearby town
cover stories hiding the facts are
released to the press
in a last desperate attempt to regain
human control a secret meeting is
arranged in europe between forbind and
his soviet counterpart dr cuprin
colossus learns of it and both computers
order forbins returned to the u.s while
soviet agents are ordered to kill dr
cuprin under threat of a missile launch
against moscow
colossus orders forbind to be placed
under 24-hour surveillance
forbin has a last unmonitored meeting
with his team and proposes that dr cleo
markham pretend to be his mistress
colossus grudgingly grants them
unmonitored privacy when they are in bed
together and they use these interludes
to plan to regain control of colossus
concluding that colossus's only real
power resides in its control of nuclear
missiles forbin suggests covertly
disarming them
the american and soviet governments
develop a three-year plan to replace all
launch triggers with undetectable fakes
additionally one of the programmers
comes up with a plan to feed in an
ordinary test program that will
hopefully overload and disable colossus
colossus creates a voice synthesizer and
uses it to announce that it has fused
with guardian
it instructs both governments to
redirect their nuclear arsenals at those
countries not yet under colossus control
forbin and others see this new directive
as an opportunity to covertly disarm the
missiles much more quickly and they
celebrate
the disarming process begins and seems
to go undetected by colossus
the attempted system overload during
routine maintenance fails however and
the responsible programmers are killed
colossus arranges a worldwide broadcast
in which it proclaims itself the voice
of world control declaring that it will
prevent war as it was designed to do
mankind is presented with the choice
between the piece of plenty and content
or the piece of unburied death
colossus states that it has for some
time been monitoring the attempts to
disarm its missiles and as a lesson
would now detonate two missiles in their
silos one in the u.s and one in the ussr
killing thousands so that you will learn
by experience that i do not tolerate
interference
the computer then gives the design team
plans for an even larger computer
complex to be built into the island of
crete
colossus later tells forbin that the
world now freed from war will create a
new human millennium that will raise
mankind to new heights but only under
its absolute rule
colossus informs forbin that freedom is
an illusion and that in time you will
come to regard me not only with respect
and awe but with love
forbin responds never
if you enjoyed this video help me grow
my channel by subscribing